in the next two videos will examine the intensive use of the substitute culture where you
replace in a significant number of values.
And this is a technique that I refer to his group Force substitution.
Let me show you how it works.
So zero or manipulating text.
Let's open up 06 rubles substitution.
We have a situation similar to one that we've seen in the previous video,
where we have a customer code that actually contains three components.
We have a series of numbers which we want to extract is the customer I D.
That we have two letters which we want to extract is a country code and then we have a
series of numbers.
What we want to extract is a sector code,
but in this example we have a slight problem.
The number of digits that preceded the two letters varies,
and the numbers that followed the two letters also very and there no convenient characters
such as hyphens,
which occur consistently in every entry.
So the only thing that we have is the fact that we have two letters somewhere in the middle
of the customer code.
So the brute force substitution solution to This involves combining the left mid and write
functions with search,
as we've seen in previous videos.
And then when we search,
we treat any letter as a single character,
so I'm going to use the hyphen.
But you can use any character you like,
so there are a lot of moving parts to this.
The first thing we need to do is to get actually training folder.
Let's just open up 06 substitution template.
So here we want to create a formula which will gradually build the substitute formula that
we want.
So the way it works is that you put your old text in this column on the new text whatever
you want to replace the old text with in the adjacent column.
So this example,
the thing that we're replacing is every letter in the alphabet.
So let's go ahead and find the letters of the alphabet.
That's always when in doubt,
we go to the Internet and do a search on here.
We've got a Wikipedia example that will do the trick service in the copy all of the upper
case letters and paste them into our template,
just paste them initially as a row I'll call them and use the transposed option to paste
them as a column.
And I can just delete what I originally pasted and then for the new text.
I'm just gonna put a hyphen and copy that all the way down.
So as I said,
there were quite a few moving parts to this.
So that's the set up.
Let's now look at how we build formula in this cell.
We put this cell that we want the formula to refer to.
So,
of course,
when we use the formula,
we're gonna be referring to A.
To that,
the substitute function is case sensitive.
So we have two choices we can either find,
then copy all the lower case letters or we can simply transform the contents of a to upper
case on.
Obviously,
the latter is preferable because it's just one operation.
So instead of just type in eight to,
I'm going to type upper open brackets a too close bracket.
In other words,
we're applying the substitution to the upper case version of the contents of self A two.
So now we create a formula which will generate the formula that we actually want,
So we type equals on the formula that we want uses the substitute function.
So in quotes it put substitute open parentheses.
Let me just remind you of the three parameters that the substitute function news is so
First of all,
we have text.
This is the text that we want a razor which is sell A to which we've converted to uppercase
using the other function.
Then we have the old text,
which will be the column containing the upper case letters and the new text,
which will be the hyphen that we've put in the adjacent column.
So to get our formula to generate that formula,
we now need to close our quotes and use concatenation and percent,
and can captain ate whatever is in the cell above.
So if I click on the salad bar,
which is a two that completes our first argument,
all those presents is so you can see what we're building.
So that's the start of the formula that we want to end up with substitute Upper A two,
which is the first argument of substitute.
So now need a comma.
The men we can move on to the second argument,
the ampersand close so to close the first argument.
We put a comma and to open the second argument,
we now need quotes.
So what we want to do is to put quotes inside,
quotes.
And whenever you need to do this in Excel,
you simply double up.
So we type two quotation marks on that means close,
and now we put the regular closing quotation mark.
So it's difficult beauty on the screen that actually got three double quotes next to each
other.
Let's to stand her again so you can see what we build in.
So we've got substitute first argument,
comma and then the quotes for the second argument to put something inside the quotes.
We just but ampersand the three and then put the clothes in quotes.
Ember send open quotation marks,
double up on the quote so instead to double quick.
And then we can go into the third argument,
said comma.
Double quotes around the third argument close clues.
So if your lives in count that was ampersand.
Three.
Quote,
coma and three quotes again Finish.
We won't hamper Send C three.
So that sound.
New text arguments and finally to close off.
We need double close,
open quotation marks,
quotes,
quotes to indicate double quotes and then the closing quotation mark.
So four quotes at this point room and we enter,
and the anything I forgot was the clothes in parenthesis.
So I'll just put back here just before the final double quote,
and that completes our formula.
So basically,
what we now need to do is to simply copy this down.
So I was like,
opiate down.
You can see that the original formula becomes the argument of a new substitute function,
and that's the way that substitute works.
You could say it's the reverse of lest in what you're doing each time is your rap in a new
substitute function around the existing one.
So we start with a single substitute permission,
and then that original substitute function becomes the text argument.
The first argument off another substitute function any,
then replace the second letter.
And then all of that becomes the text argument of the third substitute,
and you replace the third letter.
You do that all the way up until you get to said so we'll eventually have 26 substitutes
wrapped around each other in this fashion,
so that may sound extremely complex.
but because we have this formula that generates the formula,
Horace,
what we need to do is to copy it down,
move to the very bottom and then the final formula that we actually need is this one.
So we can copy it into note pad or any text editor.
And that's what it looks like because you can see we started with the original Upper A to
and then we just applied successive substitution on that initial value.
So if you count all the bees still in 26 of them,
one replacing these letter of the alphabet and each time the letter is always being
replaced with a hyphen.
So every time we use this code,
whatever letters are in cell eight to will always be replaced by hyphens.
And then we use the techniques that we saw in previous videos to track the position of the
hyphen.
Using the search function on man were in familiar territory.
That's no good and waste all functions.
Some templates finished.
And the great thing about the template is,
once you've done this rather complex formula,
you can just keep it on.
Any time you want to use this technique,
you simply replace these two columns.
When we look at other examples of using this template during the course,
say,
for the moment,
we can just close it down and save our changes.
So now we want the customer by B and this is gonna be used in the left function.
So let's just expand that formula.
Bar has been usual.
So just to remind you of the technique use the left function is the outer function.
And it takes two arguments the text from which you are extracting characters,
which is a two,
and then for the number of characters we used to such function.
The fine text is the character that you're looking for and this is where I'm brute force
Substitution comes in so that formula that we've generated begin paste in at that point,
and it effectively means will be certain for hyphens.
But within text,
of course,
is where we're searching,
which of course,
is a to.
And then you got to remember that when we find the position around hyphen,
which will be where the UK is,
because the substitute rule in place all letters with hyphens.
We don't have to subtract one,
because otherwise in this case will be picking up the new as well of the number that
precedes the letters.
So we type equals left center.
That's parameter is text,
which is a two Coleman or cancer.
And then the second perimeter is supplied by search or enter Find text.
What are you searching?
Call,
which is a hyphen Coma within text,
wary.
Looking for it.
This is where we paste in our code just across the note pad or text editor and copy it
repast.
It'll then?
So in other words,
we're not searching inside a two per se.
We're searching inside a modified her shin off a 21 which has hyphens replacing the
original letters Well then and that completes our search functions as the closing
parenthesis for that.
And then the search function is in turn the second argument off the left function so old
enter again and the final closing parenthesis All the left function Well,
we enter.
You can see that we've got the number,
but because I forgot to put the minus one.
We've also got the letter,
so we simply need after the search which closes here to insert minus one.
So we're not picking up the first letter and that's it.
So that's how left and weaken vendors copy this one down and we'll see each time.
It's just picking up that variable number of digits.
So now on to the country code.
This time,
when using,
admit.
So the mid function takes three arguments because for me,
the text which will be the text in a to and then for the start number,
will use the search function.
And then the final text will be out Group for Substitution Code,
which I've called mega sub in this diagram on again within text is a to this time there's
no adjustment necessary.
When we find the hyphen,
we're in the right position.
So the country code equals made cantor.
The text is a to comma and then start number,
search,
enter or in Texas hyphen.
You call may for enter and then we paste in our mega sub code or enter and that completes
our search.
It was important Asus for that coma and then we're back into the mid function.
We've completed 1st 2 arguments,
text and starting them.
Now we want a number of characters so bold Enter.
I have a number of characters is a ones,
too.
It's a two letter code that complete sound made that all winter on the closure for emphasis
that gives us our country code,
which we can then cut me down in per sector code.
Let's use the right function.
So to use the right function,
use Len to find the final count the position.
And from that you search to find the position of the hyphens.
So right itself takes two arguments.
The text that you're looking inside,
which is 82 then the number of characters we use Len Onley to that.
Texas is a final character position minus and then we use such and now mega sub to find the
position of the first hyphen within the to that will correspond to the position of the U.
So,
of course,
if we left it at that,
we'd end up including the K in the stream that's being extracted.
So we need to subtract one from the total to avoid picking up the second letter of the
country code.
So equals rights.
Enter text is a to Coleman enter and the number of characters we have Len off a two minus
search well,
canto by in Texas the hyphen Call me canto.
I mean,
for within text you paste in,
make a code cancer because his a man minus one and that completes our right.
So old enter on an equation.
Parenthesis or the right policy.
So there we have It seems like 2795 on we can help me down someone who is crabbing the
numbers which follow the letters.
So,
as you can see,
even though we've got this fairly complex looking formula,
once you have a template that can generate that code,
you can just paste it anywhere.
And it solves quite a wide range of problems.
Here's just one example,
and we'll look at another example in the next video.